hi everyone
how's everyone doing
all right
some good pre-lunch energy
um
all right with love we're just saying
i'd love to get a show of hands how many
of you are ceos and founders in the
audience
okay great how many of you are hoping to
be a unicorn at some point
perfect all right then you're in there
you're certainly in the right session i
would say so i'm casey ryder i'm an
operating partner at openview ventures
we love b2b sas we love product led
growth and i love talking to people so
this is perfect and i'm honored to be
here with three of my favorite ceos i'm
gonna have each of you i'm hoping
everyone knows who you are at this point
but if you could just say quick
one-liner of what your company does in
your own words and how long your
company's been a unicorn for
let's start there
steve you want to kick us off sure uh my
name's steve sloane i'm with contentful
so contentful is a content platform
imagine you're going to find that pair
of red sneakers online that red sneaker
that picture those red sneakers
everything about it has to live
somewhere it lives on contentful for
thousands of companies around the world
and so we have been a
unicorn i guess officially as of uh this
year awesome bernie hi i'm bernadette
nixon ceo of uh algolia
and those red sneakers that steve was
talking about you would use us to find
them so we're a search and
personalization platform api first and
we've also been a unicorn since earlier
this year fantastic taupe you've got
almost red sneakers on so tell us who
you are
hi everybody i'm topal matana i'm the
founder and ceo of calenly what we do
accountant is we make it super simple to
schedule prepare and follow up in your
external meetings we've been doing it
for about eight years now um
our customers range from individuals all
the way to through large enterprises
that you know do business with us
through the tunes of hundreds of
hundreds of thousands of dollars uh
and uh your last question was how long
we've been under you forgot already come
on
i can be really precise with that answer
december 1st 2020. so
uh
awesome nine or so months all right
awesome so
you know researching coming out you know
we hear a lot of talk about unicorn
we're here to demystify the unicorn buzz
but you know when the coin was termed i
think 2013 there was something like 39
unicorns and flash forward to today
there's over 530 three and a half
percent of vc money goes into it but
only .006
of companies will become unicorns it
takes an average of seven years so
how did you you know we're here to
tell these people how you did it but i
guess to start what are the traits of a
unicorn company in 2021 and tobal start
with you
yeah so i think there are many many
traits uh i think you know the the ones
that i get the one that i get the most
excited about and i think the one that i
manage most is solving a medium full
problem for a large um at scale right
for many many different people and so if
you're you've created a product or
service
that is driving revenue
for your customers that is helping them
make their customers happy that is
helping them keep their employees happy
and successful
and doing that at scale to the tunes of
you know millions of users or milli you
know millions of uh dollars in uh
revenue or hundreds of million dollars
in revenue i think those are some of the
successful traits of a unicorn
bernadette what are you
um i think the other thing that i would
add to that is disrupting so you know
growth if you're going to get to be the
unicorn you need to have aggressive
growth and so disrupting a marketplace i
also think is a another important part
and
helping or making your customers think
about their problem in a different way
yeah you want to tack on to that
yeah absolutely maybe just to double
down a little bit on something you said
so i think there's there is this
separation like we all obsess about
everyone here right about our business
and our customers every day those are
the things that we can control the
unicorn status is actually given to us
from someone else it is a it is a
valuation so what does someone else
think about our companies and so the
thing we want to obsess about is exactly
what you are all talking about which is
creating a really magical customer
experience
but the thing that really separates i
think from an investor's standpoint the
difference between
companies who who stay a certain size
and companies who they believe can get
bigger is the size of your total
addressable market and that's one of the
things that i think is important because
when we're all launching a company the
first thing we care about is one happy
and then 10 happy and then 100 happy
customers and at some point we have to
assess whether or not the opportunity
we're going after is in fact big enough
and one of the things that was so
interesting to me
about this last round of financing was
how obsessed
that set of investors was with how big
this could be over the next five to ten
years
and that you know
day to day we all probably have really
hard things to go do but it was that
longer term view that gave them
the conviction to invest you know in all
our cases a lot of money realistically
but with the belief that it would pay
out over a very long period of time
the other interesting thing was when we
were in our latest funding round
i agree the investors were interested in
the the size of your tam or the service
addressable market but it was we had a
very interesting reaction from one of
them because they were you know we
talked about how many customers we had
over 100k in arr and then we how many
customers we had over a million
in arr and one of them interrupted me at
that point and said that's all i needed
to hear so you got a big tam and you can
capture it
i want to go back a little bit so
there's obviously a lot of early stage
companies here and you know we certainly
have a lot to talk about on the
fundraising and growth side of the house
but you know if if these folks want to
be a unit you know on the 2025 unicorn
list what's sort of step one for them
you know bernadette what metrics should
companies start tracking early on
so i think there's some basic ones that
apply to um every type of company um
your arr or mrr depending upon your
business model
the growth in that metric
and then also your ndr which is your net
dollar retention rate some people call
it nrr
and that's an important one so
best in class
for your net dollar retention rate which
is a combination of your
um your churn over the last 12 months
gross chen as well as what additionally
you're selling into that set of
customers best in class is over 130
percent you know nobody just jumps there
or very few i guess you know snowflake
has 169 right now
but you know if you think about it if
you have an
ndr rate of 120
your company is going to double in five
years if you've got 130
your company will double in three years
so that's a really important one and
then i think once you get from there
there are certain um metrics that you
need around pipeline um around sign ups
if you're a plg
company and that sort of thing but i
think you've got to pick your north star
and i think
it's so easy for us to kind of get
bogged down in so many metrics you gotta
pick seven you can't keep track of more
than seven yep
in my opinion
that's all
from all right so if you got your
metrics from a hiring perspective in top
you know open views worked with you on a
hiring from from the beginning um but
what was your what was your most
important role from you know 100 to 500
million 500 million and beyond or just
even looking back you know your first
sort of big hire what what have been
your key hires
yeah on your journey
so every single hire that you the higher
you need to fill now feels like the most
important hire
and that will always be the case but as
i i guess maybe the
the way i think about it is like what is
the sequence of things you need to get
right to have
a business that's doing you know like
that is uh
worth a billion dollars in enterprise
value and for us the sequence really
went like this first we really figured
out the product and it was really about
building a product that could solve
meaningful important problems for our
customers like once you then have that
the next thing you want to do is get as
many people in this world to know about
that product right so the sequence i
would think about it is first let me
make sure i have a product that solves
uh
an important important problem for our
customers and i have the proof points
to uh i have the proof points to to show
that and then how can i you know tell
the world about it and then the third
thing i started thinking about is
culture and values right um
you'll find out very very quickly that
once you have a product and you have a
and you know how to a way to get it to
the world the next thing is you need
people to help you
advance that mission and people
and you need to create a culture that
attracts the
those people so those are the three i
would say big hires and then
obviously operations right
everything quickly followed yeah right
steve what are your thoughts on that
because you know you you are you've been
with calendly from the you know very
beginning and so have seen those hires
through and then you know you've not
been you know at contentful as long as
tope has been with calendly but what
what were your key hires when you came
on well i think one of the things that i
want to double down on that tope said is
as soon as you start hiring
as soon as you start hiring dozens or
tens of people
getting to a place where it's a it's a
bit more formulaic in that
you know tote mentioned values and
that's the one thing i've seen really
break down at a bunch of companies when
you start to scale up you know when
we're 10 people or 30 people
you interview every single person and
the reality is that there's so much
touch between
the founders and the senior leaders
every single day that the values are
super organic there then comes a place
where other people are doing your hires
for you
and then you need to know as a founder
as a leader that those people who are
joining your company really do align
with your values and so one of the
things we did was to get to go back and
get a little bit crisper both about how
we articulated those values we brought
it down to just four
i don't think there should be many more
than that
everybody should be able to articulate
them you know on the spot all the time
and then we introduce that into the
hiring process as the first thing so the
values screen is the first screen the
skills screen is the second screen and
it was that combination that i think has
been really important for us we did a
lot of hiring in the last two years
and the culture hasn't fractured or
broken or become multi multiple cultures
within different you know teams
but it was only because we got really
really intentional and the the companies
i've been most excited to be around
whether i worked with them or not have
all had that really really consistent
values and real clarity about the fact
that they are a cost of entry like if
somebody doesn't share those values they
may be incredibly skilled but they're
not going to join the team
that makes sense all right you've got
your metrics you've got your values and
your people
next on the unicorn checklist can you
get to unicorn status in just one with a
single product and i know you know you
and bernie were chatting about that so
i'd be curious bernadette we'll start
with you on that one
so can you become a unicorn on just one
product yes you can
um what steve and i were talking about
backstage was you know it takes a long
while to launch that second product and
it for it to reach
whatever you call it lovable maturity
where you can you know replace most of
your competitive products on the market
so you know
there's a fine balance i think in terms
of introducing it too early versus too
late there's a little bit of art in that
i'd love to hear
from you steve on that but the one thing
that i feel really really strongly about
is as you're thinking about introducing
that second product make sure it's a
product that's applicable to your main
persona or the decision making unit to
which your your sellers your go to
market strategy is already aimed because
otherwise they will have a hard time and
they'll have to do what i used to call
the up and over you know i joined a
company it'd be a great second product
or a fantastic acquisition and i'm like
yeah you don't sell that to that person
so how are we going to navigate that and
it ends up being hard for your people in
the field
certainly if you're google you can have
one product
it worked pretty well
but for many of us there will be at
least add-on products and a shorthand
for what bernie was just talking about
is product channel fit and we we obsess
about product market fit with our first
product so much did it get any traction
wow we've seen so many great products
die on the vine because they didn't have
good product channel fit it's to a
different persona it's a different sales
motion
it might be in a different geography etc
and so as you're thinking about other
problems to solve for your customers
because you know there's i think there's
a lot of confusion about second products
which is some people say oh you
shouldn't listen to your customers they
don't know what you want or they don't
know what they want excuse me or others
would say and which was what we would
say you actually have to obsess about
your customers problems um our argument
is that actually asking someone well
what do you want me to do for you it's
just not a very good question
but if you can find great ways to
to form that question they can tell you
what their biggest problems are and
inevitably there are problems wrapped
around the core thing that you do
and then those become interesting add-on
products but only if you have good
product channel fit otherwise it is
likely to both be distracting and
honestly we've seen lots of companies
get swamped particularly at that sort of
25 to 50 million dollars in revenue zone
where they start to split their efforts
and it really really slowed the company
down and once that decelerates it can be
very hard to re-accelerate
and just to expand on that on steve's
point
in our case like we have we have a
single product and
we will for a very long time and part of
the reason that we've been able to do
that and still grow
uh and become a unicorn and still like
grow at a pretty fast pace is really
expanding the the types of customers we
can serve with that one product right so
we launched the product and we initially
had product market fit with individuals
and we saw scheduling really really well
for those individuals but it turns out
as we're solving scheduling for those
individual individuals they also work in
teams right and they begin to
help us understand that team scheduling
and when i'm scheduling with my team and
pulling my availability with my team
it's a whole different set of
considerations there and so we evolved
from just being able to solve scheduling
for individuals who being able to solve
it for individuals and teams
and what happened along the way is we
actually found that when we did both of
those things our ability to recruit to
retain those customers one doubled and
it provided you know
massive growth opportunities right
along the way we also found out that
just solving scheduling loan for our
users was not enough they wanted us to
help them schedule their meetings you
know seamlessly and efficiently but it
also wanted us to actually improve the
outcome of those meetings and that
created a whole
new set of uh uh revenue generating
opportunities for us and value creation
for our customers so
taking that single product right but
solving it for uh but you know serving
many different personas with it whether
it's individuals and teams and
enterprises um across you know
across your graphic boundaries
across different industries
is yet another
way to grow before you start to think
about a second product
because there are more synergies taking
that same product and solving it using
it to uh
solve the
similar similar problems for other users
than it is go into a second product so
you want to make sure you maximize the
juice from your first product before you
begin to
how many people here are calendly users
all right good good just want to make
sure yeah i'm like
are you a calendar user
like occasionally sometimes okay
all right before we move sort of on to
to the growth piece and
what separates the unicorn from the rest
of the pack early on you know tope did
you know when you founded you know this
company and you're like i want to make
scheduling easier were you setting out
to be a unicorn you know or were you
just like i'm gonna build this great
product that solves a need for a pain
point i'm facing and lo and behold here
we are but you know even from you know
bernie and steve when you've seen other
companies are you like that's going to
be a unicorn and if so why have you said
that yeah i did not i was not thinking
about being a unicorn when i first
thought about building cal and i'm glad
i didn't actually i actually think that
you know the responsibility of building
a billion dollar company on day one when
you don't even have a product you don't
have the first customer would have been
incredibly daunting yeah and i think it
is actually good to
uh to be a little bit naive about all
the possibilities on day one right what
i got really really excited about is one
first i had a i had a problem uh with
scheduling and i got really excited
about
i spent a lot of time understanding the
market
and
in those six months that i spent
studying the market i got really excited
about what could be built and this great
problem that nobody else seemed to kind
of see the urgency around and so just
being able to prove that there's a
better way to schedule and you could
actually get people to adopt that
product um was what i was
very excited about and that's really
what drove me in the early days
accountantly fast forward to like i said
before we started with individual users
along the way as you begin to solve that
problem for that for those in initial
set uh initial users you realize that
to retain these customers that you
fought really hard to acquire the best
way to actually retain them is to
continuously do more for them right so
those individuals the best way for us to
retain those individuals is actually be
able to solve their problems with uh you
know be able to solve their serve them
when they become teams advice and and so
on and so forth and so being able to
retain those customers is ultimately
what drove um the desire to uh to grow
fast and and many many years later it's
turned into you know a billion dollar
plus uh market cut business here you are
yeah talking about it bernadette what
sets the unicorn apart do you think
early on
well as we talked about it's having the
disruption it's but i think i agree with
tope i i think
setting your sights on that on day one
would be just so much pressure
um somebody said to me recently and i i
think it's right the amount of you know
the likelihood of becoming a unicorn is
inversely
related to the amount you actually talk
about becoming
i i really believe that that's true i
mean i think to steve's point building
the business solving really meaty
problems and so that you can grow with
those customers is really where the
focus is and when you get to do that and
you do it right and you've shown you can
grow consistently over a period of time
and out into the future five ten years
that's when you get the moniker but it
is a byproduct i don't think it's the
the primary goal at all
yeah
i agree
build a good product and they will come
sounds simple but not everyone not
everyone does it super hard to do
right so the path to unicorn status is
different for everyone there's some
people who you know they just want to
dominate the industry they take a bunch
of money and they worry about making
money you know down the line and then
there's other folks you know tope i'd
say you know you were you know you just
built this great product you spent less
on sales and marketing dare i say
product led growth that we love to talk
about at openview um and the growth
comes but you know i think the the thing
you see across a lot of unicorns is
they've all for the most part defined
you know their own category so how do
you create you know this path to success
and create a blueprint for becoming a
category defining company when there
aren't predecessors in the space to look
towards
how do people think about that yeah um
again i also in our case we weren't too
obsessed with the category in the early
days i think now we are right um
but
some of the things i think that helps uh
some of the things that help are in
almost every single thing you're looking
to do somebody has done it before maybe
not directly in your category maybe not
directly in your space but there's a
there's a very very clear example that
uh that you can follow
and so i would i would look for those
parallels right so for us in the spatial
scheduling there there are no scheduling
unicorns right but if you look at um
what are other businesses that out there
that have taken what seemed like a
really small problem and expanded around
that problem and built massive business
there are many many different examples
so digital signatures comes to mind
right you look at you look at echo side
you look at docusign right you look at
dropbox you look at box you look at what
those companies have done and i think
following the
oh party they really love that
answer yeah so i think following the
examples of those companies is uh always
always really good there's uh you know
so even when there are no direct um
uh competitors or there's always these
indirect examples you can pull from
steve what do you think we did say we
were gonna have a dance party during so
i think that was that's our time to
break pope's gonna start us off yeah
that's an inside joke yeah so
so the the thing uh from a category
standpoint i think there are maybe two
topics that are really helpful if you're
thinking about the category you're in
one is uh one is the topic is friends
and one is foils so if you think about
a company like salesforce that did a
beautiful job early on in creating or in
co-opting a category um
they there was already a category known
as sfa there was actually a category
known as crm all
already and they they're an example of
doing a beautiful job of finding a foil
someone else who is the anti-hero to
what it is that you're doing so it was
the famous no software thing um and so
they they executed that brilliantly
obviously there's another which is the
friend bucket which is is there a group
of companies who can be successful
together if they if you get a narrative
that you tell together so in our world
that's something called the jam stack
and so a group of companies came
together to talk about the fact that
there's this new movement in software
known as the jam stack this set of um
this set of companies that are
javascript api and markup is the jam in
that stack and it was the alternative
but it was only through that really
chorus of voices that the category that
we we helped to pioneer in the beginning
which was called headless cms
it had a little bit of each it had some
friends in the jam stack and it had a
foil because
the content management system category
was a big category but this was the
headless one and so we had to then
define what headless was why it was
different and why it mattered but it
wasn't until those two things came
together that the traction of the
company really started to pick up and so
as you think about the category you're
in think about friend and foil how can
you use those in order to generate more
attention and to separate yourself
either from the mental models people
have or from the you know the narrative
that the dominant players have
established in your category
okay
companies growth journey isn't typically
linear so you know how do you think
bernadette about you know being flexible
and continuing to evolve your
go-to-market approach over time
especially you know since you know you
came in a little over a year ago to
algolia how have you thought and you
know you've seen crazy growth since
you've joined how have you thought about
sort of that iterating on your
go-to-market model because it certainly
just can't be one size fits all forever
no and i think it depends upon the
nature of the product that you have i
mean we started as a product led growth
api part of the jam stack the mac
alliance so part of that the faux model
that was the the friend model i would
say
um
and so when you look at it we grew for a
long time as product like growth
but because we also touch
um and that was through the developer
our primary persona is still the
developer
but yet there are other
um roles in that decision-making unit
that come in when you start getting out
of outside of search and into more of
the personalization and merchandising
kind of categories and so that brings
business people into the mix and so
therefore you need a sales organization
to really have the the translation
conversation with the business persona
in that decision-making unit so it
really you know for us we started this
product-led growth we layered in
sales-led growth and then as we have you
know we're a platform so we can do
search and personalization you know for
many many different types of industries
e-commerce is just easy to get your head
around
but you you got to then figure out well
how do you make your sales force
productive and that's around well you
know as you were saying you know
articulating different plays different
types of problems that those customers
you have
need servicing and then figuring out how
you
package that so that you can become
efficient at it
so when you because when you have a
platform you can do virtually anything
for anybody and that's great news that's
also the problem because where do you
focus yeah yeah so it's a constantly
evolving thing yeah all right i'd be
remiss if i didn't ask you know now i
think a few we've all mentioned product
led growth and like i said that's
openview's favorite term to talk about
so do you believe all companies need
that growth model to become successful
and you know in the case of this panel
become a unicorn or can they do it
without it
steve
it's certainly so it's certainly
possible to do without it so imagine
you're selling a product and there are a
hundred target companies on the planet
the product-led growth model might not
be the one that you need because you can
say hey here's literally a list of the
people we'd like to get someday we're
going to find the decision maker within
those companies and it's an easy hunting
ground
now if you hope to serve thousands of
companies over time
the the product led model is one you
might want to consider and the reason is
that you want to think about both the
the friction at the point of initial
customer acquisition
and then the friction
that is
that's involved in adoption over time
and so like i mean i love calendly i'm a
huge fan
um you know if you've ever used calendly
it's it's sneaky addictive right like it
gets in and all of a sudden you realize
this is how i want things to continue to
work and you send it to your friends and
then they get they get addicted too like
that model is so important but the thing
that's i think even
sort of a meta concept on top of that is
the fact that for so many years there
was this notion that if you sold
technology you sold to a cio and her
team and so you could go to one buyer
really high up you could look her up
online you knew how to find her for a
lot of these other products where the
users are acquiring which is happening
more and more and more it's a different
motion and one one thing i would warn
against and one of the challenges we
find all the time is whether it's you
know investors or advisors or people
you're bringing into the company who are
used to that other old school model
they're going to think that's the only
way to do it and i i would you know to
to this room here i'd ask challenging
questions about whether or not that's
true you know all that friction in the
process is that really in service of our
customers is that really going to help
us get more customers more quickly and i
do think
most companies would be well served to
at least ask those provocative questions
more often
yeah
yeah there's so much i can say about plg
and
there's no doubt that i would not be
sitting on the stage if calendar did not
uh you know uh
build a great plg model yeah right
there's no doubt about that i mean like
we've grown really fast because of that
um
but the way i like to think about plg is
that the hardest part about anything is
getting started like bar none the
hardest part of anything is getting
started and that's really what that's
the true value of plg in every business
whether it has a problem that lends
itself well to the plg model or not has
an opportunity to really reduce the time
and effort to value like what is the
amount of steps what are the amount of
what is the amount of steps a customer
has to take from the second they're
interested in in in your product right
how many people do they have to talk to
how much time do they have to weigh
before they can actually touch the
product and get value out of the product
and if you're constantly looking for
ways to
reduce the time to value reduce effort
of value you can get the the benefits of
plg
i'll give you an example there's a
friend of mine who runs a uh who runs a
very successful business
that is
sales led
and one of the things we were talking
about with this friend's business is
that
they
a few years ago they made this push to
um
to convert most of their customers to
multi-year contracts they found that
when they when they acquired customers
and put them on multi-year contracts
they just retained them you know two
three times better what happened in
really
what happened inadvertently in the
process is that it extended the sales
cycle right so
they retain
customers better but now it takes them
three times longer to um
to acquire customers and as a matter of
fact they're actually losing some of the
customers in the process and so
long story short there's a um
they found an opportunity and something
they're going to look into to see can we
can we grow faster but i by going back
to this uh to in a shorter
contract right and that's that's what
plg is about just reducing the friction
to uh to make it easy for your customer
and customers to drive growth in the
process yeah
the interesting thing is if you look at
all of our businesses
each one of us have disrupted uh the
traditional players in the market
and one of the so you know everything
that used to traditionally be enterprise
we've all challenged the norms on that
one of the practical things that we
found when we were sort of
going from being pure uh product led to
having tops down sales
uh led motion as well was that we made a
decision this is a while ago that our
betas our new products with our new
add-ons would only go out to the
enterprise
and it elongated the development cycle
and so we you know we you know
i got with the co-founder and we had the
discussion we said yeah let's scrap that
let's make everything available through
the self-service channel
product-like growth and you innovate you
find the feedback loop is so much
quicker and the pace of evolution is so
much quicker as a result so
i've lived in both i would only want to
live in a at least a hybrid um of a plg
slg now
love that you know the interesting thing
about maybe going back to your previous
question the interesting about plg if
you if you do it successfully
successfully enough you'll eventually
have to introduce a sales lab model
right
so the world you know eventually collide
but i think that guiding principle of
no matter which model you're applying
reducing uh time and effort to value is
the is the north star yeah i know i
think we don't plg doesn't hate sales i
think that's that's right we have a
very fast growing sales team at countley
yeah so i feel like i cut steve off i
guess
we were getting so excited about sales
and plg
no i think um
i think i actually think you just hit on
it
all right so you're perfect it's not
anti it's not that's the thing it's not
anti sales that's like the product led
growth the part and blake and i have
talked about this like the p and product
led growth some people interpret that as
like the organization the product
organization within your company is sort
of like in charge it's totally not what
it means you're actually saying the
customer is in charge and one of the
things we've found that
i've i've been in now four businesses
that had this dynamic
it does two things one it um
it gives you this quick feedback cycle
but holds you really accountable because
in a product led business if you don't
live up to that promise
they go away
right away and so your your your ability
to create something on an ongoing basis
that your customers really love is not
just obscured by a three-year contract
you know we we just displaced a legacy
player at a very very big company
because
they hadn't uh the customer had become
disillusioned with them they were on a
three-year contract
they were two months from it the
contract coming up for renewal so that
sales team came in to start talking
about this very big company about a
renewal we had been live for 60 days
so the software was shut down already
and and it was because their whole
motion at their company was wrapped
around this three-year cycle in a
product-led growth business
we think daily weekly monthly
what do those metrics look like how
happy are people what does adoption look
like and so i do think it inoculates you
from some of those challenges that you
find as you scale which is you get a
little bit more distant from your
customers and then you have that risk of
you yourself being displaced
customer-led growth
there it is there we go
new term all right uh we only have 10
minutes left so i want to talk about
fundraising because obviously that's a
huge component of becoming a unicorn you
know and and the valuations to your
point it's not really up i think you
said earlier it's not up to you it's
what you know investors essentially
value your company at so you know
bernadette how have you thought about
raising and deploying capital because
you came in you know as a ceo and raised
the round that put you sort of you know
at that unicorn status how do you think
about that you know there's some
companies out there that just think
we're going to raise millions and
millions of dollars at this huge
valuation and you know
think about making money earlier and
then you know there's others who think
we're going to you know raise this money
we're going to deploy it effectively how
have you thought about it since coming
into
algolia
so i think the first where i started was
you want to raise the money when you
don't need the money because then you
can act financially independent because
you don't need the deal
so i think that's sort of the foundation
block
and then you know in preparation you've
got to make sure that you've got your
story you've got the tam you've got the
proof points all of that sort of stuff
and then when you you get successful and
you get a valuation you like and then
the most important thing is to get the
investors that are right for you for
your business at your stage
so
you know in the early stages it's got
the vcs it's the the people that have
the operating not unlike open view that
have the operating teams that can really
help you bring more than just cash to
the table and when your later stages you
you may
you know you look at you know different
types of um
different types of investors that can be
with you on the path to the ipo they can
buy not just in the latest fundraising
round but also when you go public so
there's a there's different things you
have to think of at different junctures
different stages and then at the end of
the day um you've got to you've got to
grow you've got to burn sufficient
capital but you haven't got to go you
know stupid
i don't have any other way of saying
that but i guess different people have
different definitions of stupid but
[Laughter]
you took my next question which was
going to be you know what was the most
important quality you look for an
investor in tope i would love to ask you
that question
well so all transparency openview is an
investor accountable so i have a general
rule of thumb for how i approach uh big
decisions i almost always start with my
own independent viewpoint of what i
think i need
um or you know what i think is important
in that so whether it's hiring an
executive or picking an investor or
picking a partner
and then i get really excited when i
meet somebody who completely flips the
script right so when i think just when i
think i have all the answers somebody
who goes and changes all the questions
it's something that's a really good
partner for me right so
very very long-winded way of saying
partner with people who you can learn
from and you know broaden your uh expand
your thinking and broaden your horizons
and you know get you in conversations um
that you otherwise wouldn't be able to
get to uh get into yourself so those are
some of the
things i i think about
um steve is an ipo be all end all for a
unicorn
no
no and i we think of an ipo as
uh is a fundraising event so it's a
financial event number one number two we
think of it actually as a marketing
event uh it's an opportunity for a
broader set of people to become aware of
the company and if you know if you look
at the companies who have been
successful over time the ipo is a it is
a little blip along along the way if i
could maybe just throw out one thing try
and purge from everybody at your
company's vocabulary
the phrase
exit
or the word exit it's not an exit it's
the starting point there might be some
people who aren't in your company some
investors who
need a liquidity event or they they need
they need to leave
they're going to go off and recycle but
this this word of exit i find it really
strange because everyone here we're all
builders we build stuff for a living
we're not trying to exit
in a perfect world we get to build stuff
for decades and so
i find that word to be really really
um
corrosive in terms of getting everybody
to think about the long term to bernie's
point how we invest in a wise way and in
a disciplined way because if you're
thinking about the exit which is you
know 12 months or 24 months or 36 months
out you do
build your business differently than if
you think we want to be here for 5 10 20
years yeah right we've got a little a
little over five minutes left so you
know for the the people in the audience
i just want to kind of with each of you
if you had to summarize all the chatting
you just did for 45 minutes into you
know a couple of takeaways where you're
looking at these early stage founders
who want to just grow a successful
business what is your top piece of
advice for them unicorn or not which i
think we learned don't go ahead thinking
you're going to build a unicorn to spray
build a great product but what would
your one piece of advice be
for all these founders out here
or your key takeaways dare i say
bernie hit on something a little bit ago
which is thinking about investors by
stage i would think about your company
by stage what's right at zero to one
million and what's right at 10 and then
there's this really really funky sort of
bermuda triangle between 20 and 30
million dollars in revenue that's a
different one at 50 at 100.
get advice from people who know a lot
about the stage either you're you're in
the middle of or you're trying to bridge
to
because the advice rad is radically
different the investors are different
the questions are different stage by
stage and so
i think sometimes
the advice gets blended between stages
and much of that advice can be
unproductive for the moment you're in
building on that i would say
that also bleeds into your hiring plan
so as you go through different stages
you know you want people that have been
on the journey with you since day one to
be there you know
as you go forward and grow as a business
and as a company you also need to blend
that with
people that have stage specific
experience so you're screening for
values you're screening for skills
also screening for stage specific
experience can be really really
important because again you get that
impedance mismatch otherwise sometimes
yeah i would say remain customer
obsessed right as the business grows
your responsibility as he as the ceo
also grows along with it you have
obligations to your customers your to
your partners your employees your
investors
and they just increase and to you know
to the public right it just increases
every single day and it's very very very
easy to um you know lose that uh that
that closeness with the customers that
really got you there in the first place
and just want to make sure that you you
don't uh you don't ever lose that so for
me in my case for example until today
i still make sure that i have at least
one customer interaction every single
week and it takes a lot of different
forms
it could be it could be an email
exchange with uh with an individual user
of countley that i could have sent to
somebody else to take care but i want to
actually learn firsthand what that you
know what it is what the opportunities
are what the challenges are with uh
using our product or doing business with
us in general so find those
opportunities just to stay connected
with your customers and even though you
have many many people who can do it you
can get a report um there's nothing like
that uh
um how many of these people got an email
from you beg apart i said have any of
these people got an email from you has
anyone got an email from tope as a
customer of calendly oh all right nice
wow
well i mean yet another way to stay in
touch with the customers is you know
accountantly link and
[Laughter]
you guys can still get in touch with a
lot of customers that way yeah all right
i have uh one one more question for you
and this is a very for those of you who
know me a very casey type question and
i've talked to um i think tope about
this or sent you all an email but so you
know unicorn was this you know magical
creature this magical status that nobody
could really get to when the um term was
coined in 2013 but you know now it's
it's all the rage so what do you think
the next magical what's the next thing
people are aiming for what's the next
creature and i think there's you know
been some some animals thrown out there
but i would love to hear what you think
that it should be what's your next goal
so it's uh i actu i think it's it's not
a creature well it's a creature okay
yeah this is your answer whatever
um i do think
as we think about the number of unicorns
that have been built if we if we think
about
the value that the people in this room
are going to generate over the next 10
years this is historically
transformative in terms of how much
wealth and value can be created by a
relatively small community of people
distributed around the world
i do think we are due for a shift in the
conversation or in addition to the in
the conversation
to this notion of more of like the
giving tree which is if there's this
book that was written in the 60s it's
about this it's a beautiful book about
this tree and first it you know gives
it's the family mostly a boy in this
case you know shade and then the apple
and then it's used to make a number of
things that at the end of the day it is
used actually as a stump on which this
now
older man can sit and so i think the the
conversation around around giving and
contribution has started it's really a
wonderful part of the community we are
all are a part of i think it can be an
even bigger part of the conversation
even earlier in the life stages of
companies because we i believe are
uniquely poised to transform our
communities in radical positive ways
over the course of the coming decades
based on the value that's created by all
of these unicorns
so the unicorns are becoming a giving
tree giving tree done bernadette yeah i
feel very trivial with my answer now i
don't know
i'm about to i was thinking of a shenu
which is a winged lion okay because you
know
it had to still have wings for me
because you know we need to soar right
in order to be able to you know continue
to grow and and and service our
customers but i don't know that just the
roar of the lion maybe it's the hair
that'd be what you would be if you were
an animal right now
my spirit animal i don't know all right
what's up
you know so i spent some uh
i spent some time on um
on the safari you got 30 seconds so you
better be quick here gorilla
i know they they scared the crap out of
me uh in the jungles of rwanda a few
months ago so that feels uh
maybe that's what that's your thing
possibly i'm not a brandon expert okay
no daddy that is true you are not all
right awesome well
just kidding i love tom all right so
bernie steve thank you for sharing your
insights i hope all of you go out and
build a unicorn and we'll see you next
year thank you all
[Music]
you